.Dd Apr 13, 2011
.Dt ACR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm acr
.Nd autoconf replacement
.Sh SYNOPSYS
.Nm acr
.Op Fl dDehmnprvwx
.Op Ar -o file
.Op Ar file | args
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
ACR tries to replace the autoconf functionality generating a full
compatible "configure" script. The main difference is that ACR uses
shell script instead of m4, and final generated script looks smaller,
faster, easy to read and maintain.
.Pp
There's a new concept that consists on adding simple rules. And trying to
skip all programming and non-portable stuff. That breaks standarization
of software packages.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d -debug
Runs ACR in debug mode. This will show a branch tree for all command calls,
allowing the developer to see if the target script is parsed properly.
.It Fl D -dist
Scans current project directory, resets to the initial state and creates
a distname tarball 'pkgname-version.tar.gz'.
.It Fl e -embed
Embeds configure.acr into the final configure script.
.It Fl h -help
Show the usage message to the console.
.It Fl m -makefile
Creates a sample "Makefile.acr" using configure.acr file.
.It Fl n -do-nothing
Do not create the final configure script.
.It Fl o -output Ar [file]
Generate the configure script into a different filename.
.It Fl p -progress-bar
Show progress bar.
.It Fl r
Recovery mode. See acr-cat(1) for more information.
.It Fl s
Strip default code generation, this is flag parsing and system checks.
.It Fl v --version
Show version information.
.It Fl w --word [number]
Cats the 'configure.acr' file and colorizes the desired word number.  
.It Fl x -exec
Generates and executes the configure.acr directly without creating the
"configure" file. You can also pass the cmdline flags like --prefix, etc.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr amr 1
.Xr acr-cat 1
.Xr configure.acr 5
.Xr configure.amr 5
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by pancake <pancake@nopcode.org>
.Pp
http://nopcode.org/wk.php/Acr
